Introduction

In today’s world, man struggles to make his life easier.Earlier,companies used a manual system to keep attendence records of each 
and every employee. The need for monitoring and keeping attendance records has assumed high importance to monitor the man-power 
engaged. In large organizations, where the man-power is high, people are not always in their cabins.They have to wander from one
room to another room, from one floor to another or from one section or block of the building to some other section, block or 
departments to perform their work. In such cases, it becomes extremely difficult to keep track of employees and find them when
they are needed or during office hours.Employee monitoring is the process of workplace surveillance to gather information about the 
locations and activities of staff members. Time is a constraint everywhere. Businesses and corporate life demands dedicated presence
of employees and so they incorporate a monitoring system to improve availability, productivity and protect organization resources. 
The main intention is to prevent unacceptable behaviour in the first place and, should that effort fail, to curtail the behavior 
beforeit can have a negative effect on the business.Since the information remains logged in a database, any personnel in the building
will be able to have access to these information through any computer connected to the system and come to know the location of the 
person he or she is seeking for.

Employees as well as admin can now easily view their time and attendance details such as applied, approved, pending and rejected
attendance requests for the entire year through an intuitive dashboard on their portal homepage. Furthermore, employees have the 
option of applying various attendance requests including -
    Permission
    Compensation Off
    Shift Change
    Over Time
    Attendance regularization
    On-Duty
    
Scope

1. Efficient and effective automation, supports timekeeping activities, records employee attendance
2. Digital or manual record system for hours worked
3. Time and Leave Approval validates submitted time record for an interval of time related to a pay period. 
   This process includes – 
    *The review of hours worked
    *Leaves taken 
         **Paid 
         **Unpaid 
    *Selection of disposition based on timesheet 
         **Approved
         **Rejected 
         **Amended
4. The leave review process includes the receipt of a leave request and selecting an appropriate response (Approval/Denial/Amended) 
depending on the applicable options.
5. Creation, reporting and maintaining of employee schedules.
6. Validation of work schedules against the state-wide work schedule codes.
7. Reporting & Analytics - Supports decision-making, strategic workforce, planning and trend identification and provide 
   robust reporting capability on employee time, leave and scheduling data.    
   
   
   
   Assumptions and Dependencies

Following are the various assumptions and dependencies made during the creation of this project:
1.	Every department should have an Admin to manipulate employee information.
2.	Only admins and higher officials with the minimum rank of Manager have access to other employee information. All other employees have access to their own accounts only.
3.	Attendance is a major part of the project and the employees have to login to give attendance within stipulated time during the day.
4.	New employees are expected to register on the day of joining itself.
5.	Since internet is a must, users are expected to have a decent internet connectivity.
6.	It is assumed that the user is familiar with an internet browser and also familiar with handling the keyboard and mouse.

External Interface
1.	The member has to register using a form provided on the website.
2.	The user can input data with the help of the keyboard or click with the mouse wherever necessary. 
3.	The package provides pull down menus from which the user can select and links and icons to navigate among the web pages. 
4.	The employee can view his attendance information and the senior executive can track his subordinate’s current location and also view their attendance.
5.	The employee can login from any machine and send his current location to the server which can be viewed by the senior officials as and when required.

Advantages

1. Avoids risks of Human fradulence via authentication
2. Eradicates attendance proxies
3. Online based System
4. Increases time and attendance security
5. Increases human availability and productivity
6. Able to provide 24x7 surveillance

Disadvantages

1. Confined to Campus premises
2. Requires Internet connectivity
3. Maintenance cost for adminitrator, devices and other resources.
4. Link failure or server down can increase the rate of false positives and true negatives
5. Ambiguity may arise as a consequence of inability to synchronize

